International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
     Information submitted to:
Information submitted by: Date:
Focus Country:
NH Yokosuka, BHC Atsugi, BHC Iwakuni and BHC Sasebo
Urara Kishimoto, TRICARE Relationship Manager Japan April 30th, 2020
Japan
       Objective: the purpose of this report is to keep you informed of any network impact as a result of the COVID-19 situation and also to provide educational links and information relating specially to the COVID-19 situation in Japan. International SOS continues to be in close contact with local Health authorities, the World Health Organization (WHO), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC), and relevant Civil Aviation Authorities with respect to ongoing developments.
Contents
COVID-19 and the Japanese Healthcare System
Japanese COVID-19 Statistics
Important Information about Purchased Care Sector Providers Useful Links
COVID-19 and the Japanese Healthcare System
Please find below highlights published on the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare website https://www.mhlw.go.jp/english/
 A call center (referred to as “The consultation center for people with potential exposure to COVID-19”) is set up by the Japanese government in each prefecture, and it is managed by respective Public Health Center. If the center suspects an individual who has been infected with the virus, the respective medical institutions suitable to treat patients with exposure to COVID-19. There is no English line set up for call center by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare at this time.
 One may also visit a clinic or hospital directly; however, the respective hospital requests a heads-up call prior to visiting the facility to secure an entrance. If a doctor suspects the patient to be infected with COVID-19, they will consult with the Japanese Public Health Center of the respective region to decide the next step. Per the website, potential symptoms can include:
  Page 1
  
International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
o Cold symptoms or a fever of 37.5°C or over for four days or more (including when you need to continue to take an antipyretic)
o Strongfeelingofweariness(fatigue)orshortnessofbreath(difficultybreathing) o Senior citizen or have an underlying disease, and you have had the symptoms
mentioned above for about two days.
For more information: https://www.mhlw.go.jp/content/10900000/000607599.pdf The process to obtain PCR test: https://www.mhlw.go.jp/content/10900000/000606696.pdf
 All patients tested positive for COVID-19 will be hospitalized at a designated provider referred from the Japanese Public Health Center. Names of those hospitals are not publicly announced; however, the respective hospitals do have the capability of isolating and treating COVID-19 patients.
 The Japanese Government and the respective prefectures have advised they are working to isolate patients with no symptoms or those with relatively mild conditions at select private hotels with 24 hour doctor oversight. Kanagawa Prefectural government is planning to move COVID-19 patients to designated hotels on April 20th 2020. For more information:
http://translate.google.co.jp/translate?hl=ja&sl=ja&tl=en- US&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.pref.kanagawa.jp%2Fdocs%2Fga4%2Fbukanshi%2Ff acilities%2F20200410_phase.html&sandbox=1
Original in Japanese:
https://www.pref.kanagawa.jp/docs/ga4/bukanshi/facilities/20200410_phase.html
 The updated summary of general measures for COVID-19 by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan: https://www.mhlw.go.jp/stf/seisakunitsuite/bunya/newpage_00032.html
Japanese COVID-19 Statistics
The following link provides the daily updates related to COVID-19 cases in Japan:
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/stf/seisakunitsuite/bunya/newpage_00032.html
https://mhlw- is.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/0c5d0502bbb54f9a8dddebca003631b8
The following link provides the daily updates related to COVID-19 cases in Tokyo for your reference:
https://stopcovid19.metro.tokyo.lg.jp/en/
The following link by Kanagawa Prefecture provides updates related to COVID-19 in Kanagawa – the website is in Japanese, but you may click “Translate” on the banner for English translation:
       The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan will be securing hotels for mild
COVID-19 patients in Japan. It used to be driven by prefectural government;
however, all mild COVID-19 patients to be isolated at selected private hotels with 24
hours doctors and/or nurse’s medical oversight.
https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2020/04/25/national/health-ministry-hotels-mild-
 coronavirus-patients/#.XqponsaP7rc
      Page 2
  
International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
https://www.pref.kanagawa.jp/docs/ga4/bukanshi/occurrence.html
COVID-19 Statistics – April 29th, 2020 at 1200
       Total Cases
Daily Confirmed Cases
Patients Hospitalized (Stable)
Patients Hospitalized (Critical)
Under confirmation
Patients waiting to be hospitalized
Under confirmation of the symptoms Patients Recovered
Patients Death
13852
275 on April 28th 2020
5740
306 688 308
4525
3374 389
                  Prefectural Breakdown:
           Prefecture
Number of
Confirmed Positive Cases as of 29 APR 2020
Number of PCR test provided (15 JAN to 28 APR 2020)
     Kanagawa
999
5536
     Yokosuka
42
     Atsugi
17
     Yamaguchi
32
1239
     Iwakuni
3
     Nagasaki
17 (cruise ship:148)
1911
     Sasebo
6
      COVID 19 Testing
 Available at Public Health Centers and selected private testing institute, medical institutions and universities with PCR test capability.
 The names of the selected private testing institute, medical institutions and universities are not publicly announced.
 Kanagawa Prefectural government work closely with their local providers and Kanagawa Medical Association to set up the COVID-19 Outpatient consultation/inspection center. The first center to be held is in Yokosuka city from April 22 – 24, 2020 from 10 am to 13:00 in the morning and from 14:00 to 17:00 in the afternoon. More centers will be established at different locations in Kanagawa prefecture. For more information, please click “translate” on a banner: https://www.pref.kanagawa.jp/docs/ga4/prs/r6318045.html
Page 3
  
International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
Important Information about Purchased Care Sector Providers
State of Emergency Declaration was on April 7th 2020 for the selected prefectures, but Prime Minister Abe has decided to declare a nationwide state of emergency on April 16th 2020. It is effective from April 8th till May 6 2020.
For more information: https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2020/04/16/national/japan- nationwide-state-of-emergency-coronavirus/#.XpgMs8aP7V0
All of our network/participating providers are now requesting patients to call the call center (referred to as “The consultation center for people with potential exposure to COVID-19”) and do not come to clinics/hospital directly if below symptoms are present:
o Cold symptoms or a fever of 37.5°C or over for four days or more (including when you need to continue to take an antipyretic)
o Strongfeelingofweariness(fatigue)orshortnessofbreath(difficultybreathing) Clinics/pharmacies are business as usual; however, there are some that may be limiting the
acceptance of routine referrals or shortened office hours.
Also, many providers in Japan are gearing toward accepting only medically urgent and emergent cases that providers may decline to accept routine referrals or test only referrals, as well as to reschedule the appointment going forward.
Please see below for restrictions by network and participating providers:
Yokosuka Area:
 Yokosuka Shiritu Uwamachi Hospital o Businessasusual
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the doctor’s permission
 Yokosuka Kyosai Hospital -Participating
o Business as usual: One of the staff was found positive with COVID-19 but
those who were in close contact with this staff were found negative.
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the
doctor’s permission
  13 prefectures: Tokyo, Saitama, Chiba, Kanagawa, Osaka, Hyogo, Fukuoka, Hokkaido,
Aichi, Ibaragi, Gifu, Ishikawa and Kyoto are considered COVID-19 “Alert Zones.”
  Nationwide state of emergency, which was effective till May 6th 2020, will be extended for a
month. For more information: https://english.kyodonews.net/news/2020/04/ad7df14851f6-
 japan-mulls-1-month-extension-to-state-of-emergency-over-coronavirus.html
 Telemedicine: Many hospitals are now encouraging patients to receive prescriptions or to
have the follow up consultation over the phone. Please kindly note that the audio-only
telephone services are NOT covered per TRICARE policy. For more information on the
policy, please review TRICARE Policy Manual Chapter 7 Section 22.1:
https://manuals.health.mil/pages/DisplayManualHtmlFile/TR15/30/AsOf/tp15/c7s22_1.html
 If a Provider needs more information about Telemedicine services and TRICARE Policy,
please have them contact myself at 0120-505-276
Page 4
  
International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
 Medical Scanning Yokohama
o Business as usual but with shortened working hours: Clinic now closes 1 hr.
early than usual and closed on weekends.
 NTT Medical Center Tokyo
o Infectious Disease dept. and General Practice dept. are closed till further
notice
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the doctor’s permission
Atsugi Area:
 Shonan Atsugi Hospital
o Business as usual; prohibits people from visiting their family and friends in
inpatient care unless necessary
 Kitasato University Hospital o Businessasusual
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the doctor’s permission
o One doctor and a nurse at their Internal Medicine dept. were confirmed positive with COVID-19. And one patient who had a close contact with the doctor was confirmed positive as well. Investigation/Disinfection had been done.
 Sagamihara National Hospital -Participating
o Oneofthe3designated“priorityproviders”byKanagawaPrefectureto
accept moderate to severe COVID-19 patients.
o 4 beds designated for COVID-19 patients, and accept patients when the beds
at Designated Providers for Infectious Diseases in Sagamihara city are full. o 2otherhospitalsarenotinournetwork.
 Prefectural Ashigara Hospital
 Prefectural Cardiovascular Respiratory Disease Center
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the
doctor’s permission
o Inpatient Oral Food Tolerance test will not be provided from April 20th 2020
 Yamato Municipal Hospital
o One OB patient was confirmed positive with COVID-19 at 4th floor East Ward.
The patient was transferred to the other facility. All in close contact with her
were all confirmed negative.
o Disinfection had been done for the room, but the ward is currently closed that
they are not accepting new IP referrals.
o Dental oral surgery dept. is not providing oral surgery, including tooth
extraction. Accepting general dental outpatient consultation but do not accept
inpatient cases.
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the
doctor’s permission
 o Trying to minimize the outpatient services – only accept patients with referral.
No self-referral cases accepted.
o Surgery–thosethatarenotmedicallyurgentmaybepostponed.
Page 5
  
International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
 Ebina Sogo Hospital/Zama General Hospital
o Only the medically urgent/emergent cases will be accepted.
o Follow up visit for stabilized patient will be postponed
o Planned inpatient referral maybe rescheduled if not urgent
o Nosurgicaltreatmentprovidedforoutpatientvisit
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the
doctor’s permission
fever
 Shonan Kamakura Sogo Hospital
o Maynotacceptroutinereferrals
o No unnecessary visit allowed for IP patients; visit is allowed only with the
doctor’s permission
 Shinjuku Kokyuki Naika Clinic:
o Businessasusual
o Accepting fewer cases/managing the appointments to secure enough space
for each patients at the office
Iwakuni Area:
 Iwakuni Clinical Center
o Businessasusual
o No visit allowed for IP patients unless requested by the provider  Hiroshima University Hospital
o Business as usual; prohibits people from visiting their family and friend in inpatient care unless requested or permission is given by the hospital.
 Hiroshima Prefectural Hospital
o Upper airway surgery or any non-urgent surgery are postponed or cancelled
for ENT and Head/Neck surgery
o NovisitsallowedforIPpatientsunlessrequestedbytheprovider
o The provider will accept the pregnant COVID-19 patients for delivery
 Iwakuni Hospital
o Businessasusual
o Requests those coming back from abroad to self-quarantine for 2 weeks and confirms no symptoms related to COVID-19 are confirmed before the visit
 Hiroshima City Hiroshima Citizens Hospital - Participating
o No visits allowed for IP patients except for IP admission day, surgery day or
with doctor’s permission
 o Orthopedic dept. is now open from April 23 2020.
 One orthopedic doctor was confirmed positive with COVID-19, but
investigation and disinfection had been done.
o 2 nurses and 1 nurse assistant, who worked at the ward for
Cardiology/Pulmonology/Internal Medicine, were confirmed positive with
COVID-19. This ward is now closed for further notice.
o Only the patients are allowed to enter the Maternity Center at Ebina Sogo
Hospital
o Ebina Medical Plaza will set up the designated team to accept patients with
o Japanese government designated hospital for infectious diseases, they have
beds for COVID-19 patients
o NovisitsallowedforIPpatients
o Only 1 person allowed to attend delivery
Page 6
  
International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
o They have the beds for COVID-19 patients  JA Hiroshima Sogo Hospital – Participating
o Non-urgent surgery will be postponed (ENT and Oral Surgery dept.)
o Acceptance of outpatient referrals will be limited – doctors will review the
urgency of the case
o No visit allowed for IP patients without doctor’s permission
Sasebo Area:
 Sasebo City General Hospital
o Accept referred patients only: no self-referrals
 Aiming to limit the routine/asymptomatic cases
o No visitors allowed with certain exceptions. For more information:
http://www.hospital.sasebo.nagasaki.jp/news/notice-of-coronavirus-disease-
2019-covid-19/
o Not accepting OB patients coming back to Sasebo for delivery from other prefectures and no family/friend can attend delivery
 Sasebo Kyosai Hospital o Businessasusual
o NovisitorsallowedforIPpatients
o Requests those coming back from abroad or from other prefecture to self-
quarantine for 2 weeks and confirms no symptoms related to COVID-19 are
confirmed before the visit  Murakami Hospital
o Businessasusual
o Requests those coming back from abroad to self-quarantine for 2 weeks and
confirms no symptoms related to COVID-19 are confirmed before the visit o Novisitorsallowed
o Only 1 person, who lives in Nagasaki or Saga prefecture, per family is
allowed to be present for delivery  Higashijima Ladies clinic
o Businessasusual
o NovisitorsallowedforIPpatients
o Only 1 adult family member per family is allowed to be present for delivery
and may stay up till 2 hours after delivery
o Only 1 adult may accompany patient for admission/discharge
 Nagasaki Rosai Hospital
o Business as usual: temperature screening for all visitors
o NovisitorsallowedforIPpatientswithoutdoctor’spermission o Travel clinic (for vaccinations) closed till further notice
Useful Links
    o Japanese government designated provider for infectious diseases: 4 beds
available for patient with infectious diseases, including COVID-19.
  Nagasaki University Hospital (Participating)
o Japanese government designated hospital for infectious diseases – accepting
COVID-19 patients
Page 7
  
International SOS COVID-19 Report to the
Defense Health Agency
Location: Japan (NH Yokosuka; BHC Atsugi; BHC Iwakuni; BHC Sasebo)
Useful COVID-19 links: www.tricare.mil/coronavirus www.health.mil/coronavirus www.cdc.gov/coronavirus https://www.defense.gov/Explore/Spotlight/Coronavirus/
Sign up on tricare.mil for COVID-19 updates:
https://www.tricare.mil/HealthWellness/HealthyLiving/Coronavirus
Provider look-up information is available on http://www.tricare- overseas.com/beneficiaries/resources/provider-search for all areas in Asia Pacific including Japan.
COVID-19 Toolkit is available for DoD internal audiences: https://health.mil/About- MHS/MHS-Toolkits/COVID-19-Toolkit The toolkit is designed for staff at military hospitals and clinics and to support local communications efforts, namely to support information campaigns to DoD internal audiences on preventive measures, signs, and symptoms of COVID-19, and guidance on what to do if beneficiaries feel sick or believe they were exposed to the virus.
Disclaimer: The contents of this report are not intended to serve as medical advice or guidance related to any individual situation. This material is made available by International SOS for information purposes only.
         Page 8
  