APPENDIX 1 (HOST NATION EMPLOYEE RETURN TO WORK (RTW) GUIDANCE) TO ANNEX M (MEDICAL) TO FORCE PUBLIC HEALTH ORDER 20- 001, 25 MAR 20
1. Medical Clearance for Host Nation Employees 1 in Quarantine:
a. All Host Nation Employees will undergo post quarantine testing (PQT) prior to returning to work. Host Nation Employees will report to the designated DoD medical check point at a scheduled appointment time based on available resources. While remaining in vehicle with mask donned, they will complete a verbal questionnaire asking:
b. Have you been in any contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case in the past 14 days?
i. If ‘no’, proceed to the next question (c.).
ii. If ‘yes’, return home and continue quarantine for 14 days since the contact occurred. Host Nation Employee will re-schedule an appointment and repeat questionnaire above.
c. Have you had any fever, or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough or shortness of breath) in the past 14 days (during the period of quarantine)?
i. If ‘no’, they will proceed for PQT. If negative (x1), then they will be issued a ‘cleared to work chit’ by medical and return to work.
ii. If ‘yes’, they have had symptoms then they will be returned home with guidance to follow up with their medical provider. Host Nation Employees with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 should seek COVID-19 testing through their medical provider. Any Host Nation Employee in quarantine who subsequently develops symptoms can no longer be returned to work without testing and should be defined as either “Host Nation Employee with presumed COVID-19”, “Host Nation Employee with confirmed COVID-19”, or “Host Nation Employee with certified negative COVID-19 testing” as appropriate (see below).
2. Medical Clearance for Host Nation Employee with Presumed COVID-19 (known contact with a confirmed case and/or symptoms consistent
1Guidance herein applies only to Master Labor Contract, Indirect Hire Agreement, and Mariners’ Contract employees in non‐health care worker positions.
 1

with COVID-19 but do not meet the Japanese Medical System testing criteria):
a. Once Host Nation Employees who have:
i. Passed 7 days fever free, without use of fever-reducing medication (e.g.
acetaminophen, etc.); AND
ii. Other symptoms (e.g., cough, shortness of breath) improved;
b. Host Nation Employees will report to designated DoD medical check point at scheduled appointment time where a COVID-19 test swab will be collected in a manner that minimizes risk of exposure to medical personnel and others (including drive-thru testing where available). This will be repeated in >24 hours.
c. Host Nation Employee will be notified of results. If both tests are negative, they will be issued a ‘cleared to work chit’ by medical and return to work.
d. If either test is positive, the employee will be directed to return home to quarantine, avoid close personal contact with anyone, and contact the local public health officials. Medical personnel will contact the local human resources office to inform them of the positive test. Medical personnel may provide the name of the employee and the date of the positive test result.
e. Host Nation Employees shall follow the directions of the Japanese public health officials, and if allowed, will schedule a new appointment to report to the designated DoD medical check point to repeat two-step testing at least 3 days following the positive test. This process will continue until two consecutive tests >24 hours apart are negative. Once that occurs the employee will be issued a ‘cleared to work chit’ by medical and return to work.
3. Medical Clearance for Host Nation Employees with Confirmed COVID- 19:
a. If Japanese Medical System performs post-infection testing and clears them from isolation with accompanying documentation, they will be cleared to return to work.
b. If Japanese Medical System will not perform post-infection testing.
 2

i. Once Host Nation Employees who have:
(1) Passed 7 days fever free, without use of fever-reducing medication
(e.g. acetaminophen, etc.);AND
(2) Other symptoms (e.g., cough, shortness of breath) improved;
ii. Host Nation Employees will report to designated medical check point at scheduled appointment time where a COVID-19 test swab will be collected in a manner that minimizes risk of exposure to medical personnel and others (including drive-thru testing where available). This will be repeated in >24 hours.
c. Host Nation Employee will be notified of results. If both tests are negative, they will be issued a ‘cleared to work chit’ by medical and return to work.
d. If test is positive, employee will be directed to return home to quarantine, avoid close personal contact with anyone, and contact the local public health officials. Medical personnel will contact the local human resources office to inform them of the positive test. Medical personnel may provide the name of the employee and the date of the positive test result.
e. Host Nation Employees shall follow the directions of the Japanese public health officials, and if allowed, will schedule a new appointment to report to the designated medical check point to repeat two-step testing at least 3 days following the positive test. This process will continue until two consecutive tests >24 hours apart are negative. Once that occurs the employee will be issued a ‘cleared to work chit’ by medical and return to work.
4. Medical Clearance for Host Nation Employees with Certified Negative COVID-19 testing (Host Nation Employees with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 whose Japanese Medical System initial diagnostic test is negative):
a. Host Nation Employees who have met criteria for Japanese Medical System testing typically have significant symptoms (i.e. fever for at least four days and/or significant respiratory disease). These individuals should undergo complete recovery before returning to work, even if testing negative for COVID-19, in order to prevent further transmission of the infection causing their symptoms (whether COVID-19 or not). If desired, clearance criteria for “Host Nation Employees with Presumed COVID-19” (above) can be applied.
3
