EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY. INTERIM POLICY IN EFFECT UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

NMRTU SASEBO Health COVID-19 Guidance for PPE Conservation

When to wear N-95:

N-95 may only be worn by Health Care Worker (HCW) in clinic’s respiratory protection program who are evaluated, trained, and fit tested.

1.	Management of respiratory patients.
2.	Performance of low aerosol generating procedures. (i.e. NP specimen collection)
o	For high aerosol generating procedures (CPR, administration of nebulized medications) on respiratory patients, reusable tight fitting respirators with P-100 filters will be preferentially worn when available.
3.	Dispatch response by EMT and EVO.

N-95 Limited Re-use:

Proper hand hygiene and PPE donning and doffing sequence per CDC guidelines and avoid touching inner lining of the respirator. 

1.	Label N-95 with your name.
2.	Wear a faceshield and another face mask (surgical mask) over N-95.
3.	Discard the outer face mask (surgical mask) between patients and wipe down the faceshield.
4.	Store N-95 in a clean, breathable container such as a paper bag, or hang in a secured location.  Store respirators so that they do not touch each other, and the person using the respirator is clearly identified.  Storage containers should be disposed of or cleaned regularly.
5.	At end of day, place N-95 in a labelled (Name, Date) brown paper bag in secured location.  Write dates on brown bag after each use.
6.	N95 respirator may be reused.  There is no way of determining the maximum possible number of safe reuses for an N95 respirator as a generic number to be applid in all cases.  Safe N95 reuse is affected by a number of variables that impact respirator function and contamination over time.  

N-95 Must be Disposed When:

1.	If tight seal can no longer be maintained due to creasing, bending, ripping, or other damages.
2.	If it becomes hard to breath through.
3.	Contaminated with blood, respiratory or nasal secretions, or other bodily fluids from patients.
4.	Following use during aerosol generating procedures (CPR, intubation/extubation, administration of nebulized medications).
5.	The mask is unable to maintain a negative/positive seal.

N-95 Negative/Positive Seal Check:

1.	Before each use, visually inspect for distortion of shape, form, and perform a seal check.  
2.	No air should be felt around the perimeter while blowing out.  If you feel air coming out it is not a tight seal.  If a tight seal cannot be obtained, the mask is not re-usable.
3.	When taking a small breath in, the mask should pucker in slightly. If it does not, the mask is not re-usable.
4.	When breathing out you should feel the respirator expand slightly. If it does not, the mask is not re-usable.


Face Shield, Eye Protection, or Goggle Re-use:

HCW treating possible COVID-19 patients should wear goggles when available in addition to a face shield to prevent ocular transmission of SARS-Cov-19.

1.	Label assigned PPE with your name.
2.	After each patient encounter, carefully wipe the inside, followed by the outside of the face shield or goggles using a approved disinfectant.
3.	Wipe the outside of face shield or goggles with clean water or alcohol to remove residue.
4.	Fully dry via air dry or use clean absorbent towels.

 
Appendix 1:  Steps for those wearing goggles/face shield with N95 respirator 
 
 


