When President Donald Trump convened his national-security team last week to discuss whether to attack Irans nuclear facilities, his top advisers dissuaded him from launching missile strikes, The New York Times reported. This comes as a relief, but that such a move was even under consideration is cause for alarm.

The scorn now being heaped upon the presidents Iran policywhich has manifestly failed to stop that countrys nuclear-weapons programmay animate the presidents interest in taking dramatic action before his term expires. Trumps critics have even speculated that when the president recently bounced his top Pentagon officials, it was out of a desire to attack Iran. I still doubt the connection, but, regardless, this commander in chief has the authority to do a lot of damage in his remaining days in officeno matter who else is in the room with him. And attacking Irans nuclear facilities would be disastrous.

Tom Nichols: Irans smart strategy

Four years ago, President Trump campaigned on withdrawing the U.S. from Barack Obamas antiproliferation agreement with Iranofficially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Actionunder which Iranians received relief from economic sanctions in exchange for stopping a variety of nuclear-development activities for up to 15 years. Although American intelligence agencies were unanimous that Iran was in compliance with the agreement, Trump argued that it was a horrible one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made  the Iran deal is defective at its core. The U.S. pulled out in 2018. The other parties to the agreementChina, Russia, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and the European Union, in addition to Irandenounced Trumps move, while Irans rivals Saudi Arabia and Israel praised it. Iran continued to abide by the agreements terms, Russia and China provided Iran with its benefits, and Europe created a payment system that allowed companies investing in Iran to skirt continuing restrictions on transactions conducted in dollars.

MORE BY THIS WRITER
Mark Esper and Donald Trump
Trumps Pettiness Is the Simplest Explanation
KORI SCHAKE

The Military Doesnt Want to Get Involved
KORI SCHAKE
Protesters in D.C. over the police killing of George Floyd
This Upheaval Is How America Gets Better
KORI SCHAKE
The Trump administration initiated a maximum pressure campaign that aimed to suffocate Irans economy until the countrys leaders submitted to an agreement without sunset clauses. This campaign has not succeeded. None of the 12 demands that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo outlined as preconditions for new negotiations with Iran have been met. By reneging on the JCPOA, America discredited the Iranians whod advocated for it, strengthening the hand of Tehrans most anti-Western elements. The administrations basic theorythat while withdrawing from the agreement, the U.S. could build allied support for a more restrictive approachhas proved false. When the administration attempted to engineer the resumption of multilateral sanctions against Iran, it garnered only a single vote from other countries on the UN Security Council.

Nor has maximum pressure constricted Irans ability to mobilize militia in Iraq, Syria, and Lebanon; impeded its support for terrorism; restrained its human-rights abuses; or prevented it from destabilizing regional governments. In fact, Iran has become more brazen, attacking shipping in the Gulf, conducting drone and missile strikes against an oil facility in Saudi Arabia, andafter the U.S. killed the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps commander Qassem Soleimaniresuming attacks on U.S. troops stationed in Iraq. The Trump administration has failed at reestablishing deterrence.

Given its fixation on Iran, the Trump administration might seek to use as pretext for a military attack on Iran the International Atomic Energy Agencys recent announcement that the country has now succeeded in reprocessing 12 times the amount of low-enriched uranium that would have been permitted under the JCPOA. When nuclear material turned up at a location that Iranian officials had not declared to be a nuclear site, the IAEA described their explanation of it as not technically credible.

Read: A new nuclear era is coming

Pompeo is currently traveling to Europe and the Middle East, and while the trip is billed as a series of consultations over his initiative to promote religious freedom worldwide (Turkish officials have bristled at that pretext and, by some accounts, refused to meet with him), it could also be an attempt to wring agreement out of allies whose territory, airspace, or bases would be needed in an attack on Iran. Some credence should be given to the possibility that such discussions are under way, because of a call General Mark Milley, the chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had with his Israeli counterpart late last week, which an official readout described only as a discussion about the current security environment throughout the Middle East. But an attack on Iran is a terrible idea for three reasonswhich should also be sufficient to make such an attack unlikely even from an administration as reckless as Trumps.

First, Irans nuclear-weapons program is geographically distributed, its key equipment is buried deep underground, and U.S. intelligence agencies have imperfect information about its location. Which means that fully destroying Irans nuclear program would require a sustained military campaign that could take several weeks. It would also require the participation of countries in Europe or the Persian Gulf region that are unlikely to give their consent. Recall that after Irans attack on Saudi Arabia in 2019, the Gulf countries opposed U.S. military retaliation. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif recently reminded his countrys neighbors, Trump is gone in 70 days, but well remain here forever.

Second, although the U.S. has ways of punishing Iran militarily without destroying its nuclear infrastructure, those alternatives are even less attractive. The U.S. could launch a naval campaign of submarine- or air-launched missiles against Iranian military targets without utilizing allied bases or airspace. But these attacks would be largely symbolic. And the problem with symbolic uses of force is that they invite meaningful retaliation. Attacking Iran while banking on its restraint would be strategic malpractice. If Iran does have a clandestine nuclear-weapons program, the countrys leaders might consider actually using it if attacked. Iran could also resume conventional missile launches or terrorist attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq, use its precision munitions against U.S. Central Command facilities in Bahrain, or launch attacks elsewhere. The government of Iraq could well demand the removal of U.S. troops in protest, as could the governments of Qatar and Bahrain, decimating the future of U.S. power projection in the Middle East and the security relationships underpinning it. Iran retaliated modestly for the killing of Soleimani near an airport in Iraq; the countrys leaders would retaliate more fulsomely for an attack on their territory.

Third, a military strike without the need to preempt an imminent attack and with no attempt to gain approval from the UN or even a coalition of American allies would be incredibly damaging both to the United States and, more specifically, to Trump and his top aides. Trump would become an international pariah, shunned at Davos, unwelcome in and perhaps even prosecuted by foreign capitals, denied the foreign money that would otherwise boost his future prospects and ease his current debts. Even Saudi Arabia might not be willing to associate with him. President-elect Joe Biden surely would not support an unprovoked attack on Iran if he were consulted, so Trump would further sully the tradition of bipartisan foreign policy during a presidential transition. The incoming president would denounce any attack by Trump and repudiate its underlying policyso Iran could end up in an even more favorable position than the Trump administrations policies will currently leave it.

Read: Trump cultivated his own credibility crisis in Iran

Having failed in four years to craft a successful strategy for constraining Irans nuclear-weapons program, the Trump administration can only make things worse by conducting a military attack on the country in the waning days of this presidents tenure. Trump and the advocates of maximum pressure have learned the hard way that their theory of success was mistaken. Theyve managed to isolate the U.S., not Iran. Diplomacy is more than making demands and administering punishment; it also requires winning support from those countries essential to your policys success.
